---
title: 'Attention! The Athens Radio Station will not be Greek after a while'
date: 2024-07-6
permalink: /posts/2024/07/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - history
---

**"Attention! The Athens Radio Station will not be Greek after a while"**

Kostas Stavropoulos was born in Egypt and was the son of a wealthy Greek family. In 1939, he was hired by Hellenic Radio, taking the lead in the relevant competition to fill the position. According to his contemporaries, he was a charismatic announcer who enchanted listeners with his voice. His work was hard and involved presenting the evening news, the speeches of important people of the time, and several shows.

When the Greco-Italian War was declared (October 28, 1940), Stavropoulos broadcast the news. Since then, it has been the voice that informed the Greek people with the short official announcements of the Greek Armed Forces. He was also the man who announced to his compatriots the German invasion of Greece, as well as the one who delivered the moving message of the capture of Athens. The latter, among other things, stated the following:

«Attention! The Athens Radio Station will not be Greek after a while. It will be German and spread lies. Greeks don't listen to it. Our war continues and will continue until the final victory. Long live the Greek Nation».

Stavropoulos, recognizing the historical importance of his words, kept them in his memory, recording them several years later. This act of preservation ensured that a significant historical document was saved, and it is now available for all.

You can listen to it here: https://youtu.be/uJCS7FQ6OyY.
